>> Maximiliano Firtman: Let's
start talking about the project.
You have already seen sneak peek,
but it looks like this.
Okay, so we have movies.
So that's the whole idea.
We have a database of movies, and
we will work with those movies.
We can filter, we can search,
we can mark a movie as a favorite, and
for that,
we will need to have a user account.
So we have logging, we have registration,
and the whole flow for that process.
For the details,
we are going to be also creating some web
components that will render
the details of the movie,
including, for example,
a video embed from YouTube.
So we will see there how to create
the web component that we can reuse
many times when you have YouTube movies.
And of course, this is just
downloading the data from the backend.
And the backend is downloading
the data from the database.
So we actually will see all the flow and
everything.
That we will be building
to make that work.
Regarding the technologies
that we will be using,
we have already mentioned a couples,
but the backend will be just go.
The database will be Postgres, but
the idea is that we're going to
see how to think future proof.
That means that if, in the future,
we want to change the data storage and
we want to use MongoDB, is that
a completely different storage mechanism?
Or if you want to change
Postgres with another database,
we're going to see how
to think about that.
Even if you're not going to
create a MongoDB database.
This days, or today at least,
we will prepare the code with some
design patterns, so we will be easy
in the future to make that change.
Okay, so
part of today's idea is to see and
think about the architectural
design patterns when we
are building an app that will
make that app More future proof.
Because in the future
everything will change.
There are things are changing.
Maybe we change providers.
Maybe if you're doing an app for
a client, for a customer,
the client is changing
something internally and
now they want to use a different database
storage, our app should be ready for that.
Okay, so for the front end, HTML,
CSS, vanilla JavaScript, so no React,
no Angular, no Bucha, yes, no Next.js,
just plain web technologies for
the communication between
the front end and the back end.
We're going to just use JSON,
restful, APIs.
There are other options as well.
GraphQL and other protocols,
but we will be focusing on
the basics of the web,
like this is kind of vanilla web but
we are using, these days to
communicate the front end and
the back end, just JSON and
using the basics of HTTP.
For example, in that case,
we have the verb get, post,
delete, put, and also we have
the status code as a protocol.
We will see that later.
But for example, if you are searching for
a movie and the movie does not exist,
the server will respond with the 404
using the HTTP protocol directly.
And the data will be transported
using just JSON, okay?
That's the idea.
So in terms of best practices,
we are going to be building
a single-page applications.
We will use also repository.
This is the pattern that will let us
change data sources in the future easily.
Again, if from Postgres, we want to
change it with MongoDB, well, repository
is the one that will let us do that,
and we will see how to do that with Go.
We will try to use clean
code as clean as possible.
That means sometimes we
need to make decisions, and
we will decide on the cleanest solution,
and with that I mean maybe not the most
performance solution but the one
that feels easy to understand, okay?
So we are we're building this let's say
this is our first full stack project
that we are creating.
So our goal is to understand the project
to keep it maintainable for the future.
And sometimes,
if you just focus on performance,
you do sometimes dirty tricks in your code
that when you look at that, you said,
I don't understand what's going on.
So that's for
the another step in the future.
No frameworks as I mentioned before,
no frameworks server side,
no frameworks client side.
In terms of libraries, so
libraries are like smaller things,
we will try to keep external libraries
to the minimum, mostly on the server.
On the client, maybe we won't use in
this course any libraries, but for
the server, for example,
when we will be making authentication.
When you do decrypt the password, and
making decryption like low-level
manually doesn't make any sense.
We don't want to reinvent the wheel on
things that are not really important for
building the app.
So in that case, we will use micro library
specifically for that from the community,
from the go community, our app, actually,
you saw that in action is really
fast to execute and render.
So that's one of the greatest
advantage of doing everything with
Vanilla JavaScript is really
fast to execute and render.
Also to deploy,
because we want Neil to compile every
time we make a change in the front-end.
Of course, Go is a compiled language,
so when we are making changes in
the server we will need to compile, but
actually, Go compile it really fast.
So compare will compile
an Angular application or
an extra yes application that
sometimes it can take a minute or so
every time you deploy,
that this actually pretty fast.
So our deploy time.
It's around two seconds.
So every time we make a change,
it's two, three seconds.
We are ready to try that compared with
other solutions that are much slower.
So, keeping the code easy to
understand is one of the goals.
And also, we will use an idea that is
coming from the JavaScript world that is
not actually Go.
It's environmental variables,
so in an environmental file.
So actually, you can create
environmental variables in the operating
systems system and read it from Go,
but it's difficult to do that
from a developer's point of view,
we need to set up a variable in the OS.
Sometimes when we are coming from the web
world, we like the dom.env files.
Well, we're going to
use a micro library for
Go that actually simulates the same idea.
In case you haven't heard about.m files,
don't worry, we will see those later.
But actually, for example,
for setting passwords or
our database logging, a script and
everything will be stored in that file,
instead of hard-coding those in Go.
So for the database,
we will be using PostgreSQL,
your own installation,
full or with Docker.
We won't cover that part too much.
But in case you have a PostgreSQL database
locally and you wanna use that one, or
you know how to install that,
it's not a big deal anyway to install it.
You can do that, but if not,
you can use a cloud-based provider.
That's probably the fastest solution for
today.
There are many providers out there.
Even with a free tier,
some that you can start using
these days is Superbase or Aiven.
Here we have the urls.
We will see later you create an account,
you create the new instance of a database,
and you will get the string to
connect to that database, and
later we will see where
to insert that string.
And see if it's working.
Neon is another one.
So all these cloud-based providers,
they have a free tire that typically
they will give you at least 500
megabytes for your database.
Our database will be around 40,
45 megabytes.
The free tire will be pretty
good enough and also for
the traffic that we are going to
be using is gonna be pretty good.
Also, you can use AWS,
Amazon Web Services, Azure,
okay, and other like big cloud providers.
The problem with that is that if you
don't have experience with those,
setting up just a database takes a lot
of time, a lot of configuration.
You need to dig into a lot of
bureaucracy into Azure and
AWS to just get the database.
These cloud-based providers
are specifically targeting
just the database, so
it's pretty straightforward.
You log in, you create an account for
free, no credit card.
Nothing, you create an account and
in three clicks,
you get your instance up and running.
Okay, ready to use.
Okay, our pressure will
be called reeling it.
We'll be able to see top and recent
movies that we have in the database.
We're going to be able to
search movies by keyword.
Okay, all the Superman movies,
all the Back to the Future movies.
We can get into the movie details,
including the cast and
other metadata available.
Then we will have user registration.
Just plain registration will be available,
so with username and password.
And we'll see how the flow looks
like on a standard project.
Then user authentication,
that's what we typically known as logging.
Okay, so
registration should create account, and
authentication is to log in the user, and
we will see how to authorize the user.
So once we authenticate the user,
how to keep that user authenticated
across different calls, okay?
So we will see how to do that technically.
Then after you are logged in,
you will be able to mark
movies as favorite and
also in your watch list.
So in that case, you will see, okay,
when I watch this, that movie, and
you will be able to see
that list per account.
Every account we have its own list
of favorites and watch lists.